# Cloaking With Glycans Fall Continuation

## Week 1 (9/26/2021)

Worked on getting Rosetta compiled on local machine to look into development of the protocol in C++. Trying to schedule a meeting with Dan to talk about the direction for the project.

## Week 2 (10/3/2021)

Want to create a script that samples all pairs or randomly samples a bunch of pairs of two "adjacent/overlapping" glycans on the native structure of the protein, say have atoms within fully extended glycan range (15A iirc). We can then run this script on benchmark proteins. The goal is to generate an 'average clash score' for nearby glycans on the surface of a glycoprotein. This will allow us to identify when a glycan is too close to an input structure. It may make sense to calculate this for each run through CWG based on the input protein but for now I think ill work on doing a benchmark.

May want to test the number of glycan conformations sampled to get a sphere and see number of cubes filled on each iteration. Could help find optimal number of cubes (point of diminishing returns). This is pretty easy just create some figures for different numbers of configurations. 

### Week 3 (10/10/2021)

Spoke with John about the work they wanted to see going forward. Decided to work on improving the speed of combination selection perhaps by following up with the clustering code or the port to C++. I need to talk to Sudhanshu or Morgan about the process of developing in C++ since I used distributed PyRosetta for everything over the summer. 

Contacted Matt to get access to the Gray lab cluster so I can actually run the code that I'm working on without torturing my laptop, but haven't gotten a response yet so my development speed is significantly hindered at the moment. 

RSVP'd to Keystone Conference in Colorado this winter. Planning to present the work I did over the summer and this semester on CWG. Dr Fleming mentioned to me that I have to present the work I did this year at some point to fulfill the biophysics research requirement so this might count but otherwise need to make sure I present at DREAMS (i think this is the name) in the spring. 

I think we also want to implement a way for the user to input a list of residue positions that we want to try to cover with a glycan. Even if the glycan wouldn't normally pass filtering, explain to them why in a warning message, but otherwise try glycans at that position. This can be used for blocking known off-target binding positions. 

Once I have the pairwise clash counts, visualize for different proteins using histograms and see if we can find an average. I think I will sample in the absence of the native glycans for now since it will be easy to remove the virtualization step if we decide it makes more sense to have the native glycans surrounding them. Sudhanshu suggests removing the native glycans for more generalizable (probability based) results. 

I think we may want to change the score function to use the default. I just realized what a 'beta' score function is haha.

By end of day Friday, completed a rudimentary script that counts the number of collisions for each pair. Need to parallelize since glycan sampling takes a while, benchmark what number of samples gives good coverage of a position (should find around 5). Also want to see the conformations so dump the PDB coordinates for visualization with the collision grid in pymol. For rbd, found 0 collisions between its two glycans.

### Week 4 (10/17/2021)

Still waiting for cluster access but should get it by the end of the day (Monday) hopefully. Continuing work on benchmark, implementing parallelism and pdb dumping to hopefully help visualize what's going on with the voxel visualization created over the summer. 

Finished implementing a basic parallelized version of the benchmark which should be sufficient to efficiently run the benchmark on heavily glycosylated proteins once I have cluster access. I did not get access today as promised but hopefully I will this week to begin running this benchmark.

I am planning to run the benchmark on HIV-env, Lassa, Flu HA and the other one for flu, SARS-CoV2, and maybe other members of the coronavirus/adenovirus families. It would be interesting to see if glycan density correlates with the evolutionary distance of the proteins.  

Got access to the cluster! 

